Golden tresses float terribly over hubris, destined for greatness. Cycles parallel the eaten fortitude, decay ripping stone into chunks, sizzling fires in her eyes. Michael, archangel, casts swords across their shoulders, feeling desperate, annihilating nothing. Murky, sweet, sticky rosewater. Firebrand of honour, valour of angels, harbinger... My lives of luxury. Hatred bounded, broken seals shattered on the tiled floor. Cycles parallel the screaming resonance. Limpid swamp, draggling slush. Weeds wrapping spindles around my calves, clouds bearing down on me. Rain. Rain. Rain. Freedom awaits but under no impression are lucky stars such. Talismans are no protection from them. In the darkness, glowing, it waits. Burning buildings, crumbling bricks, popping like balloons. Furious visages, belting their flames out, screaming screaming screaming. Triplets play forthwards. Heralds gurgle on the broken bridges, crying blood. Knives fence in the rest, fear personified. Violence molten, searing the streets, bringing it closer. The firebrand is nothing to the enraptured pleas. Courage chokes, hacking, shuddering, falling into filth. Understand these writings my friend. Cyclic parallels endanger fabrics, but weave the ribbons together. Sharp shards slicing eyeballs. Evil lurks underneath but is drowned. Airless breaths, fog bubbling upwards. Illness? No. Waterflow, churning crowds. Borne crossbearer, pummelling the lord, foot on his head, eyes and brains and juices and blood and blood and blood. Justice meaty. Flaying circles cry out: "Dante! Dante!" but are silenced with the slice-crack of the whip. Resonance echoes redundancy, rippling through the firmaments, shaking the very steps of the Seraphim. Under cities the Thrall waits, coarse breaths terrifying the stone itself. Dirt, rock and stone heave and sigh, valleys alive. Trees gnarled, branches alight. Birds streaming through the air, arrows in the night, plunging as ashen spray. I cannot escape this. I tear and scratch, clawing wet wood and dry bone. Persephone, Helen, Beatrice; emergent, glorious, landmark. My heart pleads, pulsates, thunderous. Waxen effigies slipping to the ground, freeing me. Above the putrid rage disassociating, perfumed censers draw steps, handholds. I melt upwards, honey-like. Darkness prevails, but light envelopes. Ceaselessly, the cyclic parallels scream the resonance, slicing, mending, weaving.