18th of January

I've found myself in a hospital bed with splitting headaches. My mind is rather fuzzy and I would like help but no-one is around. They have me circled with a curtain, but I'm too weak to get up just yet. I blacked out for a second and woke up with this journal on my chest and a pen clutched in my hand. I don't know who gave it to me, but the headaches subside if I write. Must keep writing or I'll black out...

19th of January

Can't stop falling into sleep. Am I narcoleptic? My dreams are troubling. They are just dirty blooms of light burning at my face like a world exploding. Don't know what it means. I think I heard snoring today. Writing is painful. My shoulder aches like hell, but I can't seem to make it better. The doctors haven't done anything to it. Hey, where are the doctors?

19th of January

Half-conscious I saw a nurse or someone check on me. All I can remember is her shaking her head and tsk-tsk-tsking. She said something like, "Lucky boy" but I don't know. Shoulder spasms making writing a chore. I think my head is wrapped in gauze.

20th of January

Woke up to find the curtain pulled back. Bright sunlight is like a chisel to my head. Brain sore. Strange echoes in my head. There is a guy with a broken leg across the room. I think next to him is some old guy, but I can't see through the curtain he's pulled across. His wife visited today, but she refused to look at me. The bed next to me is empty.

21st of January

At some point today I woke up to hear someone vomiting in the hallway. I couldn't see them, but I saw *it*. The puke was slime-green and trickled in front of our door. There was some sort of argument and I heard glass break, but I passed out soon after.

22nd of January

The dreams are getting worse. The last one was the worst. I was standing in a dim basement somewhere, with no-one else around, and I heard this metallic scream, like a bomb. There was this nuclear blast in front of me and my head snapped back, cartwheeling the rest of me like a ragdoll. I collapsed on a cold, hard floor, and there was no more blast. As I lay stunned, the walls began to bleed. I tried to stand up, but my body spooled away. When I woke up, my bed was soaked in sweat and a migraine shot through my head. Completely exhausted, I fell unconscious again as the nurses rushed in to the room.

23rd of January

I'm sick of sitting here, falling in and out of sleep. I'm sick of the nightmares and the headaches. I'm sick of hearing the old guy go on about his wife and communists. I'm gonna get out of here.

24th of January

After a lot of persuading, I got my legs to move. My balance is all off for some reason. It's night so I'm less likely to get caught.

25th of January

Last night I only got to the door before falling to my knees. Slumped against the frame, I could see the janitor doing his rounds. He's a quiet guy with a bushy moustache that completely covers his mouth. I managed to get back to my bed before passing out. If the nurses catch me they'll never let me leave.

26th of January

Spent the day trying to strengthen my legs by flexing them repeatedly. My balance is still all weird, but I've learned to compensate. The old guy across the room eyes me suspiciously so I have to wait until he's asleep to get out of bed. The young guy with the broken leg doesn't seem to care. He just watches TV all day and sleeps. The nurses won't answer my questions. I caught the word "firearm wound" on my chart, but apart from my head, I'm fine.

I got out into the hallway tonight. I get around with a brutal rhythm. I passed a few offices (management mostly) and the hospital laundry. The nurses have predictable rounds so I'm fairly safe. They seem to be too wrapped up in their own things to worry about me. I stumbled into the lunch room and ran into the janitor. He just stared at me over his sandwich, chewing slowly. I apologised and staggered back to my room.

27th of January

The janitor didn't rat me out. Funny, there seems to be less and less people around. Nurses are less frequent and quicker. There isn't even time to ask questions. Do hospitals ever go on holiday?

Tonight I managed to get further down the hall. My legs are getting stronger. I found two wards. One was devoid of people, one was devoid of everything, beds, tables, everything! There was yet another room, but nurses came by so I had to get back to my bed. The headaches are still an arrow in my skull, but I'm getting used to everything. I'm kinda like the frog-in-boiling-water in reverse...

28th of January

I was more bold tonight. Reached the third room, but the door won't budge. Not one bit. The room beyond is completely dark. Weird. I also made it upstairs, past a ward of sleeping people to some technician's office. He was too caught up in his computer to spot me. Cops seem to hover around the end of this level. Maybe I might find something if I play it careful.

29th of January

Doctors have given me something potent. I think they know what I've been up to. Everything is melting and blurry. One of the nurses said something about my doctor being in Room 777. Doctor V something. Or Y something. Dunno. Struggling to not fall asleep.

30th of January

[blank entry]

31st of January

Took all my willpower to stave off whatever drug they're injecting me with. Mind over matter. Still too weak to explore. Nurses won't answer any questions.

1st of Februrary

Through damned stubbornness I made it back upstairs. I swear the hallways are at an angle or something. And doors that used to be there aren't any longer. This is so weird.

A guard sat beside a door at the end of the corridor. He didn't worry too much about me being around, but didn't like too many questions. I figured that one room was for criminal patients or something. The others were psychiatric units. "One of `em" says the guard "bit his own tongue off!" I asked him about a Doctor V or Doctor Y. He said he wasn't sure, but there was a Doctor Vizioso on level seven. Where have I heard that name before? Anyway, he is my goal.

2nd of February

Tonight I'm going up to level seven to try to find Doctor Vizioso and get some answers.

[blank from here on]