'You open the book to the introduction, a long, winding discussion on the book to come. You skim over it as it seems more like an indulgence for old gents reclining in comfy chairs, smoking pipes. The introduction explains the history and the purpose of this and that, but you\'re mostly amused by the cool-sounding names like Cephalus, Polemarchus and Thrasymachus. Even old man Socrates makes an appearance. You wonder whether these guys are all showing up to weigh in on the political debate. ',
		     'Weird. The first chapter starts off like a first-person story, but in the point-of-view of Socrates. Socrates catches up with Glaucon and what seems to be Socrates\' usual crew and they start shooting the breeze. You flick ahead further and find that somehow they\'re in what looks to be a one-sided discussion. Socrates keeps firing questions at them (though the guys don\'t realise he\'s luring them into a trap). You don\'t read the discussion in great deal, but it looks like Socrates opens a can of philosophical whoop-ass on some guy named Thrasymachus. It looks a bit preachy, which is probably a prelude to all the discussion about republicans and so on. ',
		     'Turns out Glaucon and Thrasymachus hadn\'t finished and in Book Two (Plato uses books instead of chapters), it\'s on again. This time they ramble on about justice. The chapter seems less Q&A and more lecturing this time around. Your cursory skim gives you only part of the conversation but they seem to talk about justice by talking about justice in cities, and do that by building a city from the ground up. It twists and turns and you can sense politics coming on the horizon, but by the end of Book Two they start talking about Gods and sort of leave it there. Perhaps they\'ll start in Book Three. ',
		     'You aren\'t too surprised when Book Three begins talking about poets, Gods and Hades. You\'re beginning to think you\'ve misjudged the content of this book. Socrates pontificates about what poets do, then actors, then athletes... You flick through at an increasing pace