Ronald Stewart is fine for the credits :)

OK... here is a further problem I had with the phone... it's behaviour
sometimes doesn't make sense and I'm not sure exactly why. This is
unchanged and repeatable weirdness -

{I pick up the phone and get the appropriate shivers}

>put down phone
You let the receiver fall from your hands. It dangles from the phone,
rocking back and forth, colliding every so often, sending itself into
a spin.
>take phone
You are already holding the phone. 
>put handset on hook
There's no good surface on the hook. 
>put down phone
You're not carrying that. 
>take phone
You are already holding the phone. 
>hang up phone
You put the handset back on the hook. 

Checking my inventory (>i) never shows the phone or handset's presence
in my hand.

Sorry for the many-short-messages... but

>light paper
(with your trusty Zippo(tm) lighter)
That is not something you can burn.

I did cheat and restart, but in the boiler room:

>look at steam
A complicated network of pipes enter and leave the boiler, eventually
disappearing into the wall.

I'm really worried about upsetting you here with this one... the game
claims that there is nothing in my pocket after i put stuff into it
(except for the lighter, which goes back to being invisible when i put
it in my pocket, but isn't refound) :S


>put paper in pocket
Done. 

>put lighter in pocket
Done. 

>search coat
You search through the pockets, hoping to find some long-lost
treasure, but alas, you find nothing.

>i
You are carrying nothing, and are wearing your trenchcoat (which
contains a crumpled-up scrap of paper).

This indicates two mistakes - I am told that I decide not to punch to
door for a second time, and yet I do anyway... also the grammar of
'The ring of the phone' isn't quite correct.

>punch door
Which door do you mean, the swinging door to the laundry, or the door
to the stairwell?

>swinging
You punch the door with your palm. It swings violently for a while
before stopping. It looks you came off more worse for wear than it
did.

The ring of the phone to the west reverberate through the hallway. 

>again
After the stinging hand you received last time, you decide not to
punch the door again. You punch the door with your palm. It swings
violently for a while before stopping. It looks you came off more
worse for wear than it did.

The ring of the phone to the west reverberate through the hallway.

A ghostly storage room sign is described in the text, but seems inaccessible.

>look at sign
Which sign do you mean, the storage room sign, or the out-of-order
sign from washing machine?

>storage room
That was not one of the choices. Which did you mean, the storage room
sign, or the out-of-order sign from washing machine?

and the mailboxes...
>look at mail
The small, round key is a typical design for a mailbox key. You recall
having some key similar to this once before.

mailbox 105 exists when it shouldn't, and mailbox 101 doesn't have an owner

>unlock mailboxes
Those are not something you can unlock. 

Going up to the second floor in the staircase results in a No Exit
Death. The staircase is the only way Up I have found so far.