OK!
I've started a cursory explore of the first room, and here are a whole
bunch of minor things...

nouns I like: box (synonym for boxes), window, (crumbling) wall, mould/corner.

I would like to be able to push the boxes and kick the boxes,
especially since I can move them placidly.

I can 'climb onto boxes' (which means I am sitting on them) even
though they 'almost touch the ceiling' but I cannot 'climb boxes'
(which I would expect to be the same thing). While I'm sitting on the
boxes I can move them and remain sitting on the boxes. I can also kick
down the door while I'm sitting there. I can even stand on the boxes!

'open boxes' gives the result that boxes cannot be opened. i don't
think that's exactly right!

When playing IF: I rarely use the verb 'search' unless I am stuck, so
finding the alcove is a chore - since I don't find it by looking nor
examining the boxes. Having to search for the right word to use is
something to be avoided.

I *like* the TADS implementation of 'again', useful for kicking down
the planks in the door. You might want to capitalise AGAIN (or aGain)
somewhere in the description when the planks start to go (it's good
that you clearly direct that person to try again, otherwise they might
give it up as a lost cause), so that it acts as help for the easily
bored.

Reading the boxes - I just noticed and I like that each box has a
different name and address! It's worth making it clear that you will
pick out a different box each time so that people bother to experiment
with something that you've coded nicely. Perhaps the text could say
that you discard the box you picked up - that way a player would
expect the next box to be different. "Satisfied by the inanity of the
name, you discard the box." or something could work.
I've now read through a few boxes and sometimes it says "This one
seems to be addressed to just Jackson" which reads poorly, I think.
Perhaps a Dr, or a less likely Rev would be a better option.

Once I've found the alcove, it would be nice if 'North' was a possible
exit, and when I hit 'N', it explains why I can't yet go that way. At
the moment it seems like I forget about the alcove once I've found it.

I can attack the planks, but I can't attack the door/the alcove, which
I might alternatively do and expect the same effect.

Moving the boxes - I noticed that you can't move the boxes before you
find the alcove (you have 'no reason' to). When you have boxes, I *do*
want to move them (the first things I did were 'look at box',
'look at boxes', 'kick the boxes'). I have a bit of a Starsky and
Hutch attitude. I guess. If there is a pile of boxes, make them fly
across the room for effect. It's OK if there are multiple ways to find
the alcove.
Or if you want the alcove to be hidden well enough that it isn't just
found by accident or by someone not even really looking, then maybe
behind a pile of boxes at the start of the game isn't the best place
:)

I found the spiderswebs in the next Basement room (which I haven't
explored yet). That's what I'm talking about! :)

best,
Ronald